# RedPitaya HIL Simulator

This repository contains the source code for a Hardware-in-the-Loop (HIL)
simulator based on the RedPitaya STEMlab platform. The HIL-Simulator is
designed to facilitate real-time simulation of up-to 3 state systems with 2
analog inputs and 2 analog outputs, also supporting specialized nonlinear
elements needed to, for example, simulate levitated nanoparticles.

## Repository Organization

As the HIL-Sim project consists of many different parts, the following section
is dedicated to providing a quick overview of the repository folder-structure.

- `matlab`: All MATLAB-code and SIMULINK-models are contained within this
  folder. This mainly includes the `hilsim_library`, which is the HIL-Simulators
  frontend towards the user.

  Additionally, the IP-block(s) generated by Vitis-Model-Composer are also
  contained within this directory.

- `conf_server`: This directory contains the source code for the configuration
  server running on the RedPitaya. The configuration server acts as the interface
  between the MATLAB library and the IP-core itself.

- `ipcore`: The FPGA sources for the HIL-Simulator IP-Core are contained within
  this directory.

Documentation can be found in the `docs` directory. Quick links:

- [API Documentation](./docs/api_docs.md)
- [User Guide](./docs/user_guide.md)

## Setup / Getting Started

This setup guide assumes that you already have a set-up ReadPitaya environment.
A detailed guide and additional information can be found in the internal
docs [here](https://vojtechmlynar.github.io/Red%20Pitaya%20Guide/First%20steps.html).

1) Install the required software on your host-PC. Depending on whether or not you
   want hardware-accurate simulation using the actual IP core implementation,
   you will need Vitis Model Composer as well, limiting the supported MATLAB
   versions.
   - MATLAB 2021b (or newer, if you don't need hardware-accurate simulation)
   - Vitis Model Composer 2021b (only if hardware-accurate simulation is needed)

2) Clone this repository to your host-PC.
   - Copy the MATLAB library  in `./matlab/hilsim_lib` to your MATLAB working
     directory (including the example and calibration scripts in `./matlab` if
     desired)
   - Copy the configuration server sources in `./conf_server` to your RedPitaya
     using `scp`. You can use WinScp if you are on Windows.

3) Compile and deploy the configuration server on the RedPitaya.
   - SSH into your RedPitaya using `ssh root@<redpitaya_ip_address>`
   - If not already installed, you'll need the `build-essential` and `make`
     packages. Install them using `apt-get install build-essential make`. Note,
     that an internet connection is required for this step.
   - Navigate to the `conf_server` directory and run `make` to compile the
     server.
   - After successful compilation, there should be a `build` directory and a
     `hilsim_server` binary in `build/hilsim_server`.

4) Copy over the current IP-core golden image to the RedPitaya. 
   - The current IP-core bitstream can be found in
     `./ipcore/golden_images/hilsim_ipcore_v1.4_r6.bit`.
   - You can use `scp` or WinScp to copy the bitstream to your RedPitaya.
   - Place a copy of the bitstream on the RP into `/etc/hilsim/ipcore.bit`. When
     the configuration server is started, it will automatically load this
     bitstream into the FPGA.

5) Start the configuration server on the RedPitaya. Just execute the binary
   `./build/hilsim_server/hilsim_server` in the directory where you've placed
   the configuration server sources on the RP. The server will start listening
   on port `1000` for incoming connections from the MATLAB library.

6) Open MATLAB and add the HIL-Sim library to your MATLAB path. Now you can use
   the HIL-Sim library to connect to the configuration server running on the
   RedPitaya and start using the HIL-Simulator. Refer to the example script
   in `./matlab/hilsim_particle_example.m` as well as the documentation listed
   above for information on how to use the library / HIL simulator.

## Release Notes

**Date:** 03.02.2025<br>
**Release notes:** final revision<br>

**Current IP-Core revision:** v1.4-r6<br>
**Vivado version:** 2023.2<br>
**Matlab / Vitis Model Composer version:** 2021b<br>
**Test Platform:** RedPitaya STEMlab 125-14 Z7020<br>

## Author

Johannes Berndorfer <br>
Automation and Control Institute (ACIN), CDS Research Group, TU Wien <br>
johannes.berndorfer@tuwien.ac.at, johannes@berndorfer.com